## Update Existing Database
You can add new sequences to an existing database in the "UPDATE DATABASE" tab by providing these inputs:
1. **FASTA files** : Each sequence must have a unique `>accession.version` or `>accesion` header (e.g., `>CP001849.1` or `>CP001849`).
2. **NCBI-style accession2taxid** : Sequences with accessions not listed here will be skipped. Version numbers are ignored. </br>
(It is auto generated when the GTDB-based checkbox is checked.)
3. **Old database directory**: The directory containing the existing database to be updated.


### Required fields
1. **GTDB-based checkbox:** Check this if you are adding genomes using the taxonkit-GTDB taxonomy.
2. **Old Database Directory:** The directory containing the existing database to be updated.
3. **New Database Directory:** The directory where the updated database will be generated.
4. **FASTA List:** A file containing absolute paths to FASTA files.
5. **Taxonomy Info**
    - If GTDB-based is checked: provide the taxonkit-GTDB taxonomy directory.
    - If not checked: provide an NCBI-style accession2taxid file.

### Optional fields
- **Max RAM**: Specify the maximum amount of RAM (in GiB) to allocate.
- **Threads**: Specify the number of threads to use.
- **Accession Level**: Create a database for accession-level classification. </br>
  *(WARNING: This option is not tested for large databases. Using it with more than 100,000 sequences may cause issues.)*
- **Make Library**: Create a library of species genomes. This accelerates processing when large FASTA files contain genomes of multiple species.
- **CDS Info**:  A file containing absolute paths to CDS files. For the listed accessions, Prodigal’s gene prediction will be skipped. Only GenBank/RefSeq-format CDS files are supported. 
- **New Taxa**:  Used when adding sequences from taxa not included in the existing database. See the section below for details.

### Adding sequences of new taxa
> [WARNING] 
> Mixing taxonomies within the same domain is not recommended. For example, adding prokaryotes to a GTDB-based database using NCBI taxonomy will cause issues, but adding eukaryotes or viruses to a GTDB-based database using NCBI taxonomy is fine since GTDB does not cover them.

1\. **Check taxonomy dump files** to see if you really need to add new taxa. `taxdump` command retrieves taxdump files of an existing database.

2-1\. **Create a new taxa list** 
  
If you have both **accession2taxid** and **taxonomy dump** files for the new sequences, you can use the `CREATE NEW TAXA` button next to the `New Taxa` option.
This generates two files:
- `newtaxa.tsv` for the `New Taxa` option
- `newtaxa.accession2taxid` for `Accession 2 Tax Id` field.

<!-- ```
metabuli createnewtaxalist <OLD DBDIR> <FASTA_LIST> <new taxonomy dump> <accession2taxid> <OUTDIR>
``` -->

##### Example
Suppose you're adding eukaryotic sequences to a GTDB-based database. Since GTDB doesn't include eukaryotes, you may want to use NCBI taxonomy for eukaryotes.
You can download `taxdump` files from [here](https://ftp.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pub/taxonomy/new_taxdump/) and `accession2taxid` from [here](https://ftp.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pub/taxonomy/accession2taxid/).
- How to use `CREATE NEW TAXA`:
    - `Old Database Directory`: Your existing GTDB database directory.
    - `FASTA List`: A file containing absolute paths to FASTA files to be added.
    - `New Taxonomy Path`: The directory of NCBI Taxonomy dump files.
    - `Accession 2 Tax Id`: NCBI-style accession2taxid file.
    - `Output Directory`: The directory where `newtaxa.tsv` and `newtaxa.accession2taxid` will be generated.
- How to run `UPDATE DATABASE`:
    - `GTDB-Based checkbox`: **Don't Check** it since you are not using GTDB tree for new sequences.
    - `Old Database Directory`: Your existing GTDB database directory.
    - `New Database Directory`: The directory for the updated database to be created.
    - `FASTA List`: The same one as above.
    - `Accession 2 Tax Id`: `newtaxa.accession2taxid` generated by `CREATE NEW TAXA`.
    - `New Taxa` option: `newtaxa.tsv` generated by `CREATE NEW TAXA`.

</br>

2-2\. **Manually prepare a new taxa list**

For the `New Taxa` option, provide a four-column TSV file in the following format.
```
taxID parentID rank name
```
The new taxon must be linked to a taxon in the existing database's taxonomy.

##### Example
Suppose you want to add *Saccharomyces cerevisiae* to a GTDB database whose taxonomy lacks the Fungi kingdom and only includes one eukaryote (*Homo sapiens*). In this scenario, your new taxa list and accession2taxid should be as follows.
```
# New taxa list
## taxid  parentTaxID rank  name // Don't put this header in your actual file.
10000013	10000012	species	Saccharomyces cerevisiae
10000012	10000011	genus	Saccharomyces
10000011	10000010	family	Saccharomycetaceae
10000010	10000009	order	Saccharomycetales
10000009	10000008	class	Saccharomycetes
10000008	10000007	phylum	Ascomycota
10000007	10000000	kingdom	Fungi // 10000000 is Eukaroyte taxID of the pre-built DB.

# accession2taxid
accession accession.version taxid gi
newseq1 newseq1 10000013  0
newseq2 newseq2 10000013  0
```

---